Guidelines: Submission Tests (#151)
codewars/docs: content/recipes/authoring/kata-snippets/submission-tests.md

---
kind: recipe
sidebar: authoring
prev: /recipes/authoring/kata-snippets/sample-tests/
next: /recipes/authoring/kata-snippets/preloaded/
---

# Writing Submission Tests

> This article contains a set of guidelines for kata authors or translators to create good test suites for their kata. They were collected to help ensure that kata, translations and their test suites are of sufficient quality and users' experience with tests will be as good as possible.

Author: ```suggestion
This article contains a set of guidelines for kata authors or translators to create good test suites for their kata. They were collected to help ensure that kata, translations and their test suites are of sufficient quality so that users' experience with tests will be as good as possible.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> The guidelines should be used by kata authors, translators and reviewers to verify whether new content about to be introduced to Codewars is of sufficient quality. Conformance with them should be verified before a kata or translation is published by its author and approved by a reviewer.

Author: there is sort of a "doubling" with these two sentences. I'd remove one, or merge them.

```suggestion
These guidelines should be used by kata authors, translators and reviewers to verify whether new contents about to be introduced to Codewars are qualitative enough before they are published or approved.
```

Reviewer: Fixed. In this case, "content" is uncountable (like water).

Failure to comply with the below guidelines should be considered an issue to be addressed and reported as such. In case of severe violations, the affected kata may be retired or moved back to beta, or the translation rejected.

> NOTE: There are many kinds of kata, and some guidelines might simply not apply to some of them (puzzles, hackmes, kata which mess with internals of the language runtime, and some types of challenges that require special ways of testing). But still, the present guidelines apply at least to some extent for the majority of kata, and if they are followed, kata authors can be sure that their tests will be clear, efficient, reliable, and easy to debug and maintain.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: There are many kinds of kata, and some guidelines might simply not apply to some of them (puzzles, hackmes, kata which mess with internals of the language runtime, and some types of challenges that require special ways of testing). But still, the present guidelines apply at least to some extent for the large majority of kata, and if they are followed, kata authors can be sure that their tests will be clear, efficient, reliable, and easy to debug and maintain.
```

Reviewer: Fixed.

## General Guidelines

> - **Conform to [General Coding Guidelines](/recipes/authoring/kata-snippets/coding-general/)**: tests are code too, and, as such, should keep up to code quality standards.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Conform to [General Coding Guidelines](/recipes/authoring/kata-snippets/coding-general/)**: tests are code too and as such should keep up to code quality standards.
```

(Am I actually reverting changes I introduced myself...? x) Not even impossible, considering how fond I am of commas... x) )

Reviewer: LGTM

- **Be familiar with the testing framework used by Codewars for your [language](/languages/).** Some languages use traditional, widely known testing frameworks, like `JUnit` (for Java) or `chai` (for JavaScript), and some others may use frameworks dedicated specifically for use by Codewars (for example Python). Know what kind of assertions are available, how to test objects, types, collections, etc. Know techniques provided by the framework (test case generators, parametrized test cases, etc.) and assertion libraries. You can visit the [reference page for your language](/languages/) to find more detailed information.

> - **The test suite should be organized**, splitting the tests into different groups and subgroups. Each test framework provides tools to do that, generally with a possibility to give names to each group/subgroup. Meaningfull names are helpful when there are a lot of tests of a specific kind.

Author: ```suggestion
- **The test suite should be organized**, splitting the tests into different groups and subgroups. Each test framework provides tools to do that, generally with a possibility to give names to each group/subgroup. Meaningfull names are helpful to the user when there are a lot of tests. For example `test batch 1`,`test batch 2`, `test batch 3` are useless information, while `test arrays of odd length`, `test arrays of even length`, `test arrays of negative numbers` is informative.
```

Reviewer: Fixed

> - **Know your language**, what can be tested, and what cannot. Know how to test floating point values, equalities, equivalences, and such.

Author: > https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JukTvlrh-Wk

XD
(sorry, couldn't resist)

- **Keep the amount of entries in test reports reasonably small.** Some test frameworks produce one report entry (green or red line) per test case, while some emit one entry per successful/failed assertion. The test output panel performs some DOM manipulation on the entries in the client's browser, and when there are a lot of them, browsers may experience performance problems. A hundred lines is usually OK, a thousand should be bearable, but a couple of thousands would probably be too much and freeze the browser for some time. If you need to perform that many assertions, you should limit the amount of feedback by collecting the result of a couple of conditions in one boolean variable for a complete batch of tests and then check the value of this variable in a dedicated assertion at the end.

> - **Make assertion messages clear.** Some testing frameworks are notorious for creating extremely unhelpful assertion messages. `Not what was expected` is one example of such a message, and when the user encounters it, it's difficult for them to tell why the test failed. Check what messages are produced by your tests (especially failed ones) and make sure they are clear enough for users attempting the kata. Failed test cases should ideally present the input along with expected and actual values to the user. For example, for a prime testing kata, it could be something like `27: Expected False, but was True` which is much more informative. Most testing frameworks have assertion mechanics that already provide actual and expected results, and the input can generally be added using an optional assertion message.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Make assertion messages clear.** Some testing frameworks are notorious for creating extremely unhelpful assertion messages. `Not what was expected` is one example of such a message, and when the user encounters it, it's difficult for him to tell why the test failed. Check what messages are produced by your tests (especially failed ones) and make sure they are clear enough for users attempting the kata. Failed test cases should ideally present the input along with expected and actual values to the user. For example, for a prime testing kata, it could be something like `27: Expected False, but was True` which is much more informative. Most testing frameworks have assertion mechanics that already provide actual and expected results, and the input can generally be added using an optional assertion message.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

- **Tests should handle unexpected answers gracefully.** Tests should not crash, and should present meaningful error messages when an unexpected answer is returned by the user's solution, e.g. `null` references when none is expected or an object of the incorrect type.

> - **Tests should not print excessively to standard output.** Console output is limited to 1.5 MB and when the limit is reached, the test suite is aborted by the runner and marked as failed. Users sometimes debug their solutions by printing to stdout, and when the test suite itself uses up a significant fraction of the buffer, users may not have enough left for debugging. This especially applies to kata which output HTML to create some visualizations: such HTML uses up a lot of the buffer space allowed for stdout. Ideally, the test suite should give detailed output **only when a test fails**. Successful tests should be as quiet as possible.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Tests should not print excessively to standard output.** Console output is limited to 1.5 MB and when the limit is reached, the test suite is aborted by the runner and marked as failed. Users sometimes debug their solutions by printing to stdout, and when the test suite itself uses up a significant fraction of the buffer, users may not have enough left for debugging. This especially applies to kata which output HTML to create some visualizations: such HTML uses up a lot of the buffer space allowed for stdout. Ideally, the test suite should give detailed output **only when a test fails**. Successful tests should be as quiet as possible. Also keep in mind that some test frameworks are printing the inputs in the assertion message even for successful tests. In some data heavy kata, that may cause troubles too so, again, know the test framework you're using and how it works.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - **Provide both [fixed](#fixed-tests) and [random](#random-tests) tests** for the submit tests. Some test frameworks offer features like test case generators (`QuickCheck`, `ScalaCheck`), and when used, authors can choose different structures for their test suite, but they should still create test specifications covering all possible scenarios. See specific sections below for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Provide both [fixed](#fixed-tests) and [random](#random-tests) tests** for the submission tests. Some test frameworks offer features like test case generators (`QuickCheck`, `ScalaCheck`), and when used, authors can choose different structures for their test suite, but they should still create test specifications covering all possible scenarios. See specific sections below for more details.
```

> - **Tests should not be susceptible to input mutation.** It should not be possible for the user's code to modify its input in a way which would influence the execution, result, or output of a test. If a reference solution is used, it should be called first, and the user solution should be called afterwards with the same input, or only pass a (deep) copy of the inputs to the user's solution. Potentially mutated input should not be used to compose any information presented to the user.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Tests should not be susceptible to input mutation.** It should not be possible for the user's code to modify its input in a way which would influence the execution, result, or output of a test. If a reference solution is used, it should be called first, and the user solution should be called afterwards with the same input. That or only pass (deep) copies of the inputs to the user's solution. Potentially mutated input should not be used to compose any information presented to the user either (about assertion messages).
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - **Assertions should be placed near invocations of the user's solution**, preferably immediately following them. When several results are computed calling the user's function but the related assertions are only done further, what is printed to the console by the user isn't close to the related assertion in the output panel anymore. Debugging becomes difficult for the user and that makes the experience unpleasant.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Assertions should be placed near invocations of the user's solution, preferably immediately following them**. When several results are computed calling the user's function but the related assertions are only done further, what is printed to the console by the user isn't close to the related assertion in the output panel anymore. Debugging becomes difficult for the user and that makes the experience unpleasant.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - **The test suite should not take a long time to run.** For kata which are not performance-oriented, the test suite should complete well below the time limit, ideally within 3 seconds. There's a time limit of 12 seconds (16 or 20 seconds for a few languages) for every attempt, but the generation and execution of test cases, including any calls to the user and reference solutions, should run well below this limit. Otherwise, there is a risk that tests will inconsistently time out, or some valid, but not optimally performant solutions will be rejected.

Author: ```suggestion
- **The test suite should not take a long time to run.** For kata which are not performance-oriented, the test suite should complete well below the time limit, ideally within 3 seconds. There's a time out limit of 12 seconds (16 or 20 seconds for a few languages) for every attempt, but the generation and execution of test cases, including any calls to the user and reference solutions, should run well below this limit. Otherwise, there is a risk that tests will inconsistently time out, or some valid, but not optimally performant solutions will be rejected for no objective reasons.
```

Reviewer: Fixed. But do we really need that "for no objective reason" in the end?

Reviewer 3: Isn't "a timeout" already "a time limit", which makes a "a timeout limit" a limit imposed on the timeout?

Reviewer 4: no idea...

Reviewer 4: removed `for no objective reason`. Still no idea bout `timeout limit`.

Reviewer: I agree that we should just use "timeout" or keep "time limit".

Author: Leaving it as it is, then

- **Test cases should be independent**, they should not rely on any state passed from one test case to another.

## Reference Solution

> Some test suites require a reference solution to generate the expected value(s) and compare them to those returned by the user solution. While such practice is common and sometimes necessary, there are things which have to be handled carefully:

Author: ```suggestion
Some test suites require a reference solution to generate the expected value(s) and compare them to what the user's solution is returning. While such a practice is common and sometimes necessary, it implies things which have to be handled carefully:
```

Reviewer: - I don't think the "a" in "such a practice" is necessary in this case (though I don't see how having it is wrong either)
- Interesting choice of words for "it implies" ;-)

Reviewer 4: * removed `a`
* `implies`...? I'd need an explanation, because I fear I don't follow you... x)

Reviewer: I meant that "there are" sounds more natural than "it implies" in this context. The latter seems a bit ... artificial.

Reviewer 4: ok, changed

> - **Avoid using a reference solution at all if possible.** Sometimes there's no other way, but quite often a reference solution is simply not necessary: test cases can be generated with the answer known upfront, which eliminates an entire class of potential problems associated with the use of reference solutions:

Author: ```suggestion
- **Avoid using a reference solution at all if possible...** Sometimes there's no other way, but quite often a reference solution is simply not necessary and this can avoid a lot of hurdle. Test cases can effectively be generated with the answer known upfront, which eliminates an entire class of potential problems associated with the use of reference solutions, like the following:
```

adding emphasis with "..." caus the first thing we say is "here is what you need to be carefull about: just don't use it" x)
and avoiding double semi-colon imbrication

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean "this can avoid a lot of hurdle"?

Reviewer 4: changed to `troubles`... (to avoid some x) )

Reviewer: changed to `trouble` (see comment further up)

Reviewer 4: woops x)

>   - Extra time spent on running a reference solution

Author: ```suggestion
  - Extra time spent on running a reference solution.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

>   - Reference solution being accessible to users by mistake

Author: ```suggestion
  - Reference solution being accessible to users by mistake.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

>   - Input mutation by the user solution which can affect the input passed to the reference solution, or make assertion messages confusing

Author: ```suggestion
  - Input mutation by the user solution which can affect the input passed to the reference solution, or make assertion messages confusing.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

>   - Incorrect implementation of the reference solution leading to rejection of valid user solutions

Author: ```suggestion
  - Incorrect implementation of the reference solution leading to rejection of valid users' solutions.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

>   - Incorrect implementation of the reference solution leading to rejection of valid user solutions

Author: ```suggestion
  - Incorrect implementation of the reference solution leading to rejection of valid user solutions.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - **The reference solution should not be revealed to the user.** When an assertion fails or the test suite crashes, some testing frameworks print fragments of source code which caused the failure to the console. It may happen that such printed failure messages or stack traces expose information about the solution which should not be revealed.

Author: ```suggestion
- **The reference solution should not be revealed to the user.** When an assertion fails or the test suite crashes, some testing frameworks print fragments of source code which caused the failure to the console. It may happen that such printed failure messages or stack traces expose information about the solution which should not be revealed, so the place where the expected solution is computed is not a trivial choice at all.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

- **The reference solution shouldn't be accessible to the user solution.** It should not be possible to call the reference solution directly, or implement the user solution as an alias or wrapper around the reference solution. The reference solution should be completely inaccessible outside the submit tests. In particular, it should not be a global and/or public function. Check the [reference page for your language](/languages/) to see how to prevent this problem in your tests.

## Fixed Tests

Fixed tests are tests with predetermined inputs and outputs, and do not change between test runs.

> - **Each requirement should have a corresponding fixed test.** Every aspect of the specification in the kata description should be explicitly tested with at least one, possibly more, dedicated and properly labeled assertion(s). Fixed tests are usually easier to debug, so ideally a fixed test should fail before the corresponding scenario is tested with random tests.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Each described requirement should have a corresponding fixed test.** Every aspect of the specification in the kata description should be explicitly tested with at least one, possibly more, dedicated and properly labeled assertion(s). Fixed tests are usually easier to debug, so ideally a fixed test should fail before the corresponding scenario is tested with random tests.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - **Tests should check the solution with edge cases and cases that require special handling.** For example, empty arrays and empty strings should be covered by fixed tests unless the kata description _explicitly_ states that such inputs need not be considered.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Tests should check the solution with edge cases and cases that require special handling, within the context of the task.** For example, unless the kata description _explicitly_ states that such inputs do not need to be considered, empty arrays should be tested for arrays problems, or arrays of lengths 0 and 1 for problems seeking pairs of values in arrays, or empty strings should be covered for strings problems, and so on...
```

Reviewer: Fixed

## Random Tests

> Random tests are uncommon in "real life" coding and are somewhat specific to Codewars. They are required by many kata to reject solutions based on input probing, hard-coding, and other workarounds. The goal of random tests is to make the inputs unpredictable so that only proper solutions may pass.

Author: ```suggestion
Random tests are uncommon in "real life" coding and are somewhat specific to Codewars. They are required to reject invalid approaches based on input probing, hard-coding, and other workarounds. The goal of random tests is to make the inputs unpredictable so that only solutions that are actually solving the task may pass.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - **Keep the amount of random tests reasonable.** If random tests are not used to verify performance, keep their amount small enough to guarantee sufficient coverage. In some cases it's not necessary to have dozens, or even hundreds of random tests, and several of them would be enough. Do not create random tests just for the sake of their amount. However, if you believe that a large amount of random tests helps you to detect invalid solutions which are not caught by fixed tests, you should try and find a pattern in what types of cases fail particularly often and extract them to the corresponding fixed tests.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Keep the amount of random tests reasonable.** If random tests are not used to verify performances, keep their amount small but big enough to guarantee sufficient coverage. In some cases it's not necessary to have dozens, or even hundreds of random tests, and several of them would be enough. Do not create random tests just for the sake of their amount. However, if you believe that a large amount of random tests helps you to detect invalid solutions which are not caught by fixed tests, you should try to find a pattern in what types of cases are showing up particularly often, extract them and add them to the fixed tests.
```

>  In some cases it's not necessary to have dozens, or even hundreds of random tests, and several of them would be enough

I tend to disagree on putting the sentence above here. It's perfectly correct (I bet it's coming from unnamed?), but most readers will read this as "no need to put a lot of them anyway", even when they do not understand what their random tests are actually generating or not. So I'd let that as a side note or I'd just not put it there. Better having users putting systematically 100 random tests even when useless than the opposite, imo.

Author: It's related to [this comment](https://github.com/codewars/docs/issues/19#issuecomment-723370170) from discussion thread, and it's meant to explicitly drive users away from spamming random tests in hope they will generate all possible kinds of input. It's explicitly complemented by the sentence _"[random tests] should generate test cases for all scenarios which cannot be completely tested with fixed tests."_ below, so authors put more effort into discovering possible scenarios rather than just spinning 1000 times in hope to catch _something_ .

Main idea here is: if 10 tests give just as good coverage as 100, then 5 will be enough.

Reviewer 4: OK, makes sense. But that's not exactly what I got from the sentences.
What about his?

```suggestion
- **Keep the amount of random tests reasonable if random tests are not used to verify performances.** Keep their amount as small as possible as long as a good coverage is still guaranteed: in some situations, only a bunch of inputs are actually testable, so no need to tests 10 times each of them, so use randomized testing instead. Otherwise 100 random tests are generally enough, or maybe less, depending on the task/situation.
- **Don't hesitate to build different kind of random input generators**. If a specific kind of input has very little chances to occur purely at random (like... generating a palindrom) it's better to build a specific random generator that can enforce this kind of input rather than rely on 1000 random tests and just pray for the edge case to come up (see point above). It happens that a set several random generators are used to fullfil the different needs. Note: keep in mind those generators still need to be random enough, and keeping one fully random generator is alwys good (it may generate cases you didn't think about).
```

well, it's way longer, with one new point, but... x)

Reviewer: Fixed

> - Random tests can be limited to certain types of inputs not covered with fixed tests in the whole range. They should generate test cases for all scenarios which cannot be completely tested with fixed tests.

Author: this § has to be rewritten.
* I don't understand the sentences construction
* I don't get the underlying intent
* some parts even seem in contradiction with some others, to me...

I cannot suggest anything since I'm not even sure what this means... :o (I just hope I'm not the one who wrote that x) )

> - **Use appropriate random utilities available in your language**. Know how to use RNGs, how to randomly generate types of inputs you need, be it numbers in a range, large numbers, strings, big integers, floating point values, collections.  Know how to do random sampling of collections, how to shuffle them, how to avoid duplicates. See this [obligatory XKCD comic](https://xkcd.com/221/) for how NOT to do random tests.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Use appropriate random utilities available in your language**. Know how to use random number generators, how to randomly generate types of inputs you need, be it numbers in a range, large numbers, strings, big integers, floating point values, collections, ... Know how to do random sampling of collections, how to shuffle them, how to avoid duplicates. See this [obligatory XKCD comic](https://xkcd.com/221/) for how NOT to do random tests.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

- **Random tests shouldn't be grouped by output type or behavior**, especially if the expected output is a boolean variable (e.g. checking that some input satisfies some criteria), or when it comes to error checking (solution throwing an exception in some specific situations). Hence, the order of tested scenarios should be unpredictable too. One possible way to achieve this is to generate and collect a set of random inputs for all required scenarios and shuffle them before the actual testing.

> - Under some rare circumstances, it's allowed to use so called [**randomized tests**](/glossary/#randomized-tests) instead of fully random ones. For some types of problems (for example, kata simulating chess, or problems with small set of possible inputs) it may be too complex or infeasible to generate inputs randomly. In such rare cases, it's accepted to use a predefined, hard-coded set of inputs (and possibly expected outputs too). Before the tests are run, the set of inputs should be shuffled, and eventually randomly sampled at each run to make the hard-coding of the results more tedious for the user. If possible, some additional transformation can be applied randomly (for example array can be reversed, game board can be rotated, sides can be flipped) if it can be easily accounted for in the result of the test.

Author: ```suggestion
- Under some rare circumstances, it is allowed to use so called [**randomized tests**](/glossary/#randomized-tests) instead of fully random ones. For some types of problems (for example, kata simulating chess, or problems with small set of possible inputs) it may be too complex or infeasible to generate inputs randomly. In such rare cases, it may be accepted to use a predefined, hard-coded set of inputs (possibly with expected outputs too). Before the tests are run, the set of inputs should be shuffled or randomly sampled at each run to make the hard-coding of the results more tedious for the user. If possible, some additional transformations can be randomly applied to the inputs if it can be easily accounted for in the result of the test (for example arrays can be reversed, game boards can be rotated, sides can be flipped, ...).
```

if random sampling is done, no need for shuffling => changing.

Reviewer: Fixed

- **Random tests should be run after fixed tests.** Not all testing frameworks allow for easy ordering of tests, but fixed tests should run, and eventually fail, before random tests.

> - **Difficulty should be consistent between test runs.** When randomized ranges are very large, it becomes possible for some users to receive many small, easy inputs while other users receive the exact opposite. Make sure that your random tests are built in a way which minimizes the chances for such a situation to occur. If you want to test difficult inputs, split the test cases into a set of easy ones and a set of difficult ones, and test them separately.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Difficulty should be consistent between test runs.** When ranges of random inputs are very large, it becomes possible for some users to receive many small, easy inputs while other users receive the exact opposite. Make sure that your random tests are built in a way which minimizes the chances for such a situation to occur. If you want to test difficult inputs, split the test cases into a set of easy ones and a set of difficult ones, and test them separately.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - If it's not possible to build fixed tests in a way they'd be able to catch most of the failures and you have to rely on random tests to catch errors, **make debugging of random tests easy.** Sometimes, when random tests fail, they are very difficult to debug because the input is very large and cannot be easily read. If necessary, split your random tests into two batches: one with small, debuggable inputs, and the other one with proper, large input values. Note that both parts should still contain all applicable scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Make debugging of random tests easy if you need to rely on them to extensively check the correctness of the user's solution**, if it's not possible to build fixed tests in a way they'd be able to catch most of the holes in the logic of the user. Sometimes, when random tests fail, they are very difficult to debug because the input is very large and cannot be easily read. If necessary, split your random tests into two batches: one with small, debuggable inputs, and the other one with proper, large input values. Note that both parts should still contain all applicable scenarios.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

## Performance Tests

Some kata require solutions to be fast enough. For example, the author may only wish to accept solutions completing in (sub-)linear time. Building such test suites is not an easy task!

> - **Performance tests can be implemented in terms of random tests by testing with large, random inputs.** However, to make debugging easier, it can be worth to have a separate set of random tests with small inputs.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Performance tests can be implemented in terms of random tests, by testing with large random inputs.** However, to make debugging easier, it can be worth to have a separate set of random tests with small inputs first.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - If the difficulty of a kata is roughly proportional to the size of the input, it's usually **better to have a few tests with large input rather than many with small inputs.** For example, 200 tests with huge numbers or arrays is usually better than 10,000 tests with small ones (but see remarks on size of inputs above).

Author: ```suggestion
- If the difficulty of a kata is roughly proportional to the size of the input, it's usually **better to have a few tests with large input rather than many with middle sized inputs.** For example, 100 tests with huge numbers or arrays is usually better than 1000 tests with arrays of size 10000 (but see remarks on size of inputs above and the problem below about building the inputs too).
```

Reviewer: OK, but "1000 tests with arrays of size 10000" seems oddly specific to me ... ;-)

Reviewer 4: yeah, it was just to give an idea, but it's so much depending on the language... Update it as you prefer.

Reviewer: Done

> - **The difference between accepted and rejected solutions should be easy to spot.** Ideally, accepted solutions should complete well under the time limit, while rejected solutions should time out consistently. Otherwise, you risk that solutions with valid complexity characteristics will time out, and users will be frustrated looking for micro-optimizations. This approach usually calls for very large inputs, so be careful!

Author: ```suggestion
- **The difference between accepted and rejected solutions should be easy to spot.** Ideally, accepted solutions should complete well under the time limit, while rejected solutions should time out consistently. Otherwise, you risk that solutions with valid complexity characteristics will time out, and users will be frustrated looking for micro-optimizations. Achieving this generally calls for very large inputs, so be careful!
```

"this" may relate in the mind of some users to the micro-optimizations, at first glance. Not sure it changes much with my suggestion, but avoiding "this" could be enough.

Reviewer: LGTM

- **Performance tests should be consistent between runs.** It should not happen that one and the same solution sometimes passes, and sometimes fails, depending on randomized inputs.
- **The reference solution, if used, does not have to be the same as the one in the "Reference Solution" snippet.** While the "Reference Solution" snippet serves its specific purpose and is [controlled by its own set of quality guidelines](/recipes/authoring/kata-snippets/reference-solution/), the reference solution used by performance tests can use a different, more efficient approach, to make sure that it does not consume too much of a time limit available for the user solution.

> - **Make sure that what you measure is what you want**, when solutions are to be rejected based on their performance. With huge inputs, the random generation may be more time-consuming than the computation of the expected result. Hence the overall timing indication in the output panel is generally useless to ensure that the performance tests are actually discriminating the different kinds of solutions as expected. The evaluation of the time actually used by the user's solution should be done (and compared to the reference solution if any) excluding the input generation time.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Make sure that what you measure is what you want**, when solutions are to be rejected based on their performance. With huge inputs, the random generation of the inputs may be more time-consuming than the computation of the expected result. Hence the overall timing indication in the output panel is generally useless to ensure that the performance tests are actually discriminating the different kinds of solutions as expected. The evaluation of the time actually used by the user's solution should be done (and compared to the reference solution if any) excluding the input generation time.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> - When maintaining a kata with performance requirements, it can be useful to have an access to a solution whose time complexity is supposed to be rejected. It can be used by maintainers to gauge the size of inputs for performance tests, to make sure they consistently fail. Storing it, properly commented, in the test suite, can be very helpful.

Author: ```suggestion
- When maintaining a kata with performance requirements, it can be useful to have access to a solution whose time complexity is supposed to be rejected. It can be used by maintainers to gauge the size of inputs for performance tests, to make sure they consistently fail. Storing it, properly commented, in the test suite, can be very helpful.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

- **Make assertion messages clear.** Some testing frameworks are notorious for creating extremely unhelpful assertion messages. `Not what was expected` is one example of such a message, and when the user encounters it, it's difficult for him to tell why the test failed. Check what messages are produced by your tests (especially failed ones) and make sure they are clear enough for users attempting the kata. Failed test cases should ideally present the input along with expected and actual values to the user. For example, for a prime testing kata, it could be something like `27: Expected False, but was True` which is much more informative. Most testing frameworks have assertion mechanics that already provide actual and expected results, and the input can generally be added using an optional assertion message.
- **Tests should handle unexpected answers gracefully.** Tests should not crash, and should present meaningful error messages when an unexpected answer is returned by the user's solution, e.g. `null` references when none is expected or an object of the incorrect type.

> - **Tests should not print excessively to standard output.** Console output is limited to 1.5 MB and when the limit is reached, the test suite is aborted by the runner and marked as failed. Users sometimes debug their solutions by printing to stdout, and when the test suite itself uses up a significant fraction of the buffer, users may not have enough left for debugging. This especially applies to kata which output HTML to create some visualizations: such HTML uses up a lot of the buffer space allowed for stdout. Ideally, the test suite should give detailed output **only when a test fails**. Successful tests should be as quiet as possible. Also keep in mind that some test frameworks are printing the inputs in the assertion message even for successful tests. In some data heavy kata, that may cause troubles too so, again, know the test framework you're using and how it works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tests should not print excessively to standard output.** Console output is limited to 1.5 MB and when the limit is reached, the test suite is aborted by the runner and marked as failed. Users sometimes debug their solutions by printing to stdout, and when the test suite itself uses up a significant fraction of the buffer, users may not have enough left for debugging. This especially applies to kata which output HTML to create some visualizations: such HTML uses up a lot of the buffer space allowed for stdout. Ideally, the test suite should give detailed output **only when a test fails**. Successful tests should be as quiet as possible. Also keep in mind that some test frameworks are printing the inputs in the assertion message even for successful tests. In some data heavy kata, that may cause trouble too so, again, know the test framework you're using and how it works.
```

Actually, now that I read this again, I realized that "trouble" is an uncountable noun.
